# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
Within the solutions console.rb file, this is done in lines 6, 15, 24 when a new instance is being created.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
Lines 18-27 within Property.rb

Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?
Line 4 - deletes all info in the database
Line 6/13- updates and saves property 1 in the database
Line 5/22- updates and saves property 2 in the database
Line 24/31- updates and saves property 3 in the database
Line 33 - deletes property 1
Line 35 - deletes all properties from the database


Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
The serial id is generated automatically by the database. This avoids any manual input issues from adding/deleting / modifying data in the database.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
This is done on line 32 (@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"]). An array of hashes is returned so this how we get the individual values from the id key.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
If option @id does not exist, it returns a nil

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
Instance methods are for adding/changing/deleting singular objects whereas class methods will take action on every class instance in the database.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
This returns a hash, so we need to access the id and convert it to an integer by appending [0]['id'].to_i

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
We use these to protect against malicious code being inserted by the user that might by design or inadvertedly modify/delete existing data.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
find_by_id - takes in an id
find_by_address - takes in an address

Q11. What are their return values?

find_by_id - the return value is the found property as a hash
find_by_address - as above, the return value is the found property as a hash
